Chapter-1 American and British Social Life (社会生活)
National Health Service 国家健康服务 7@3
The National Health Service provides free medical treatment for all the people in the UK.
nuclear family 原子家庭 7@-1
In the USA, a family is usually made up of a father, a mother and two children.
Ulsterman 北爱尔兰人 9@-1
Ulsterman refers to a person from Northern Ireland.
the United Kingdom 联合王国（英国）7@2
The UK is one sovereign state, but as the full name of the state suggests, it is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
homosexuality 同性恋关系 4@-2
About the morality of sex in American social life.
Collins: A homosexual relationship is a sexual relationship between people of the same sex.
Muslim 穆斯林 7@2
Collins: A Muslim is someone who believes in Islam and lives according to its rules. 
In addition the recent groups of immigrants have brought with them their cultures, such as Muslims. The Muslim ways of life are quite different from those of the British Christian life.
Northern Ireland 北爱尔兰 7@2
Northern Ireland is a part of the UK.
Scotland 苏格兰 7@2
Scotland is a part of the UK.
emigrant 移居于外国者 9@1
An emigrant is a person who leaves one's own country and settles in another.
immigrant 移民 9@1
An immigrant is a person who enters into a country of which one is not a native, in order to live in it permanently.
The USA is a country that has more immigrants than any other country in the world.
Los Angeles 9@1 洛杉矶
A city of the USA.
mainstream 1@1
"nuclear family" is the mainstream structure of the family both in the USA and the UK.
concentration 8@3
Collins: Concentration on something involves giving all your attention to it.
Finally the concentration of population in the UK. The economic difference between north and south is another distinction which marks British society, a distinction which can be seen in many societies but is perhaps particularly obvious in the UK.
sovereign sate 7@2
A sovereign state or country is independent and not under the authority of any other country.
The UK is one sovereign state, but as the full name of the state suggests, it is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
assassination 5@3
When someone important is assassinated, they are murdered as a political act.
Political assassinations are surprising and extraordinary in USA.

Answer the Questions:
1. Why is it so difficult to describe the social life in the UK and in the USA in general? 1@0
Though both speak English, it is a tough job to describe American and British like in general. There are similarities in both, yet differences can be seen not only in terms of the social life within each country, but also in the contrast of the social life between the two countries.
2. What are the five accounts in the explanation of social life in the UK? 5~8
(1) One way to classify people is by the job they do and this is used by the government in its surveys.
用工作来区分人的社会阶层——教授、医生是第一阶层；管理、教育类是第二阶层；工人是第三阶层...
(2) The UK is one sovereign state, but as the full name of the state suggest, it is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. In each of the four lands, the differences are obvious.
英国（联合王国）是一个主权独立国，由英格兰、苏格兰、北爱尔兰和威尔士四个部分组成，各部分差异（文化、习俗等方面）明显。
(3) The UK is a welfare state which was established after the Labour Party came to power in 1945. e.g. The National Health Service provides free medical treatment for all the people.
福利丰厚。例如：全民享有免费医疗。
(4) The living standards affect the life of a country.
生活标准很高。
(5) Finally the concentration of population in the UK. The economic difference between north and south is obvious in the UK, i.e. the difference between the capital and the rest of the country. London is in the south of the country, and is dominant in the United Kingdom in all sorts of ways. It is the largest city in the country, with about 1/7 nation's population;...
关于人口。南北经济差异明显，i.e. 首都London优势明显，位于南方，拥有全国1/7的人口，同时还是政治、文化中心。
3. What are the five accounts in the explanation of social life in the USA? How do you like the accounts in terms of social life in UK and in the USA respectively? 2~5
(1) The first account of the USA is the striking diversity of its people. Different people came to the USA from different nations and places at different times. The USA is a country that has more immigrants than any other country in the world.
人口由不同国家、地区的移民汇聚而成。
(2) The "nuclear family" is the second account in terms of American social life. In the USA, a family is usually made up of a father, a mother and two children.
原子家庭——爸爸、妈妈、两个孩子。
(3) The gap between the poor and the rich is striking.
贫富差距悬殊。
(4) The fourth if about the morality of sex. The American society is developing very quickly scientifically, while the spirit of society is becoming more and more hollow. The premarital sexual relationship, homosexuality or "domestic partnerships" are just a few instances of this spirit.
性道德空洞。
(5) The fifth is violence.
暴力案件频发。
4. Why is the rate of divorce in the USA high? What is your view? 4~5
It's about the morality of sex. The American society is developing very quickly scientifically, while the spirit of the society is becoming more and more hollow. The premarital sexual relationship, or "domestic partnerships" are instances of this spirit. 
5. What do you think explains the gap between the poor and the rich? 3~4
(1) In American society, equality is greatly advocated. However, social equality has never been realized.
(2) The national wealth of the USA is unevenly distributed.
(3) In the American society, since the accumulation of personal capital is allowed, there are greater differences concerning wealth and real estate than the differences in income. The gap between the rich and the poor has become greater and greater along with economic development. 
6. Imagine how different life is between a Muslim woman in Scotland and a Christian man in London and discuss the differences. 7@2
a Muslim woman covers the entire head and body, including the eyes.
Collins:  A Christian is someone who follows the teachings of Jesus Christ. 
---
Chapter-2 American and British Education
Eton College 22@-2 伊顿公学 (叫college，但其实是一所中学)
Eton College is a famous public school in the UK, which is not a college at all because it is a private school at the secondary education level. It is often reffered to without the word "college" at all. Eighteen British Prime Ministers studied in Eton.
credit point 19@4
In the USA, one of the measurements for an undergraduate in academic progress is "credit" or "credit points" or "units". A credit is defined as one hour of classroom lecture, or two to three hours of experiments per week for a semester. Students normally take 15 or 16 credits a semester, but some take 17 or 18.
independent school 12@3 13@2
The independent schools or "public schools" is few in number but of great influence. They are quite independent. Each has a board of governors separately constituted. They control the finances and appoint the headmaster, who in his turn appoints the other teachers. So the government operates no schools, employs no teachers; nor does it control universities.
junior hight school 14@table
Junior High School, Senior High School.
compulsory 11@0
Collins: If something is compulsory, you must do it or accept it, because it is the law or because someone in a position of authority says you must.
Education is compulsory up to the age of 16 in both the USA and the UK.
Rugby School 22@-1 拉格比公学
Rugby School is a famous public school in the UK, which is a private school at the secondary education level.
Yale University 23@1
Yale University is a private university in New Haven, Connecticut, USA, which was named after Elihu Yale, an early patron and was chartered in 1701. It consists of Yale College for men, three other undergraduate schools for men and women, and eight graduate schools for men and women.
Her Majesty's inspector 22@3
The department of Education and Science establishes standards to which schools must conform and from time to time it sends out a team of Her Majesty's Inspectors to visit and make thorough reports on the work of every school. The Department of Education and Science has two functions: one is to establishment of standards that every school should follow; the other is the inspections that the inspectors ought to perform. Because the political system of the UK is a constitutional monarchy, the inspectors sent by the Department should be entitled "Her Majesty's".
tutorial system 23@-2
Tutorial system is one of the systems in the management of the universities in the UK, especially Oxford and Cambridge. It is a system of sessions of personal instruction with a college tutor.
Cambridge University 23@3
Cambridge University which was established in 1284, is the second oldest university in the UK and is very famous around the world. It has 32 colleges. Each college is self-governing, but has a senate which regulates the university's administrative affairs.
preparatory school 15@3
There is also private education in Britain. The preparatory schools, which are popularly know as prep schools, are independent schools for children from seven or eight to thirteen. Their curriculum differs considerably from that of the primary school, since its main purpose is the "common entrance" examination at the age of thirteen, for admission to a "public school". Prep schools usually have very small classes and the better prep schools have the benefits of ample space, good playing fields and pleasant surroundings.
General Certificate of Secondary Education 16 table
WiKiPedia: The General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) is an academic qualification awarded in a specified subject, generally taken in a number of subjects by students aged 14–16 in secondary education in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Answer the Questions:
1. Compare the primary (小学) education of the UK with that of the USA. 13~14
In the United States of America many children begin their school education at the age of six. Most state schools offer 10 years of education and some offer 12. In primary schools, courses for children include reading, writing and there are also social courses (such as history, geography, and civics of government), science art and music. Students can also learn cooking and manual skills such as carpentry and sewing. They can do physical exercises on the playground or in gymnasiums.
In the UK, there is a complete system of state primary education -- up to the age of 11. All children must by law receive full-time education without paying fees from the age of five to sixteen.
2. Compare the secondary （中学） education of the UK with that of the USA. 14@-1 ~ 15
In the USA, when a pupil has finished his primary middle school education, he goes to hight school automatically. There is no entrance exam.
In the UK, there is a complete system of state secondary education -- age from 11 to 16 (or 18). All children must by law receive full-time education from the age of five to sixteen. Any child may attend without paying fees until they are eighteen. Education at this stage up to 16 is compulsory. In the UK there are two complete secondary education systems: the state school and the "public" schools. In secondary schools their curricular are determined by standard examinations required for university entrance. 
3. Make a contrast between the higher education in the UK and that of the USA. 17~20
There are over 2000 universities, colleges or other higher education institutions in the USA. About 1/4 colleges and universities are private. Every state has at least one public university.
There are three types of institutions of higher education in the USA.
The first type is the two-year college, originally called a "junior college".
The second is the four-year college, often called a "liberal arts college" or a "college of arts and science".
Finally the American university, which is an institution, more comprehensive and complex than any other kind of US higher educational establishment.
There are two kinds of master's degree. One requires a dissertation paper, which counts for a certain number of credits that usually constitute part of the degree programme. Another king doesn't require a dissertation paper, but more credits are required in the process of study.
The time for the completion of a master degree varies.
If a student want to obtain a doctor's degree, he usually needs more time.
British higher education has had a long history. There are over 40 universities in Britain. They can be divided into five types:
First of all, the "old universities" refers to Oxford and Cambridge which were the only two universities in England until the nineteenth century. All the students have to pay fees and living costs but every student, apart from the very rich, receives a personal grant from the local authority of the place where he lives.
The four Scottish universities, which came into existence in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries are the second type of university in the UK. They were the Universities of St. Andrew, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Edinburgh.
The universities founded from 1830 to 1930 re the third categories. E.g. Durham University, The University of London.  
The fourth type is the group of universities or university colleges which sprang up after the Second World War in the not-too-large, but not-too-small industrial towns.
The last is the Open University, which was founded in 1969 and is a most interesting innovation of higher education. As the name suggests, this is open to everybody, and does not demand the same formal qualifications as the other universities, though preparatory work may be required.
There are three academic degrees in Britain:
the Bachelor's degree
the Master's degree
the Doctor's degree
The Bachelor's degree is, in general, given to the students who have passed examinations at the end of three or four years of study. The master's degree is conferred on the postgraduates who have presented a dissertation based on at least one year's full-time work. The doctor's degree is awarded to a man or woman who does exhaustive research and presents a thesis that is an original contribution on knowledge.
4. Make a contrast between the public school in the UK and the private school at the high school level in the USA. 15@-2 ~ 16; 14
Public schools in the UK, unlike prep schools, are not private in the fullest sense. They are generally controlled by governing bodies. Most public schools, particularly the most outstanding ones, are called by the name of the town in which they are located; some are called "college" and some are not. The four most famous of all are Eton College, Harrow School, Winchester College and Rugby School. Every public school has many rules and customs peculiar to itself.
In the USA, in most high schools, in addition to general education, there is also vocational training for specific occupations. A high schools teacher has usually majored in the field of his special interest and in addition, he may have MA degree in education.
5. What does "middle school" mean to an American? 22@4; 14@1
"Middle School" is a term often used in China, but it is misleading in for sense that for Americans middle school refers to the age range from ten to thirteen.
When a pupil has finished his primary middle school education, he goes to hight school automatically.
6. Do you like the "tutorial system" in the UK? Why or why not? 23@-2 
Tutorial system is one of the systems in the management of the universities in the UK, especially Oxford and Cambridge. It is a system of sessions of personal instruction with a college tutor.
I like the "tutorial system" in the UK. Because it can help the undergraduates learn and understand the knowledge better and deeper.
---
Chapter-3 American and British Media 媒体
The Times 34@2
The Times, which was established in 1785, is the oldest and most well-know daily newspaper in the UK. Its thickness is well-known for the news and other columns. It has a glorious history in the reporting of the Peterloo Massacre in 1819, the exposure of the horrors of the Crimean War, which demonstrates the value of journalistic objectivity and the need to criticize the government.
Private Eye 29@1
Private Eye is journal in the UK. Private Eye is a successful venture in satirical reporting.
Los Angeles Times 26@-1
The three most influential newspapers in the USA are:
The New York Times
The Washington Post
The Los Angeles Times.
Christian Science Monitor 27@1
An important newspaper in the USA.
The Wall Street Journal 27@1
An important newspaper in the USA.
Reuters 29@3
Reuters, one of the four major news agencies in the West, has about 1200 reporters in more than 180 countries and regions. The principal news agency in every country in the world is affiliated with it. It is an important propaganda tool of the British monopoly bourgeoisie, though it is said to be a private or independent enterprise that issue seven-hundred-thousand-word comprehensive news report every day.
the Associated Press 26@3; 33
The Associated Press is the biggest wire service company in the USA.
Reader's Digest 33@-1
Reader's Digest is a famous monthly journal in the USA and the most widely read journal in the world, which was first published in 1922 as a digest of condensed articles of topic interest and entertainment value taken from other periodicals. It began publishing condensed versions of current books in 1934. Later, Wallace began to develop articles for Reader's Digest by commissioning them first and then offering the completed articles to other publications. By the late 20th century Reader's Digest had thirty-nine editions worldwide in fifteen languages, with a circulation of twenty-eight million.
the British Broadcasting Corporation 32@1
The BBC was founded in 1922 and received its charter in 1927 as an independent public corporation.
The BBC and IBA do most of the broadcasting in the UK, which play a significant role in daily life, social and cultural activities and educational causes.
the Independent Broadcasting Authority 32@1
The Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA) is a big broadcasting company in the UK.
 The IBA was established in 1955 . It is a commercial broadcasting and TV organization; conversely there is not advertising on any BBC programme, either radio or televison.
Cable News Networks 35@3
Cable News Networks (CNN) is a subsidiary company of Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., which is engaged in 24-hour live news broadcasts for which it gained worldwide attention in 1991 for its report of the Gulf War. CNN was founded in June 1980 by Ted Turner who established news bureaus in major American cities and other cities in the world.
the American Broadcasting Company 35@2
The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is the third of the radio and television broadcasting networks in the USA, which was formed in 1943 when Edward J. Noble purchased the so-called  Blue Network  of six radio stations from NBC. 

Answer the Questions
1. Compare BBC with NBC 32; 34@-1
The BBC was founded in 1922 and received its charter in 1927 as an independent public corporation. It is the most important broadcasting corporation in the UK. It has a board of governors who are appointed by the government and the minister of Posts and Telecommunications, which is ultimately responsible to Parliament but which enjoys a considerable degree of independence in practise.
National Broadcasting Company (NBC) is one of the major radio and television networks in the USA. The system was established in 1925; its stock was owned by Radio Corporation of America, Westinghouse and General Electric. By the 1980s, the NBC television network consisted of five NBC-owned stations plus some twenty-one affiliated stations; the NBC radio network included eight NBC-owned stations and about three hundred affiliated stations.
2. Make a comparison between the broadcasting system in the UK and that in the USA. 30~33
The USA is a highly-advanced technological society. Radio and television are quite ordinary things in each household. 
A network is a group of broadcasting stations that are linked or joined in their operations so that each station can use the same programme. Broadcasting coasts for these programmes is paid for by the networks. Today the major radio and TV networks are: CBS, NBC, ABC, CNN, VOA.
The BBC and IBA do most of the broadcasting in the UK though there are many commercial broadcasting companies, which play a significant role in daily life, social and cultural activities and educational cause.
There is no advertising on any BBC programme, either radio or television. The BBC, is financed by payments from all people who possess TV sets, the government gives grants to cover the rest of the BBC's expenditure.
The IBA obtains its finance from advertising.
3. What are the features of the British press Why is there no censorship of the British press? 27; 34@1 
There is no censorship of the British press 
A paper printed in London around midnight can be at a breakfast table anywhere in the UK the next morning except in remote country districts.
The pres mostly owned by one of about five large organization; independent small newspaper publishers find it very hard to survive.
In the UK, the government does not exercise a kind of official examination of the news or other publications in the British press to see if any thing is offensive, morally harmful or politically dangerous in order to censor it.
4. Make a contrast between the Reuters and the Associated Press. 29@3
The Reuters, one of the four major news agencies in the West, has about 1200 reporters in more than 180 countries and regions. The principal news agency in every country in the world is affiliated with it. It is an important propaganda tool of the British monopoly bourgeoisie, though it is said to be a private or independent enterprise that issue seven-hundred-thousand-word comprehensive news report every day.
The Associated Press was established in 1848 by six New York newspapers and is one of the largest new agencies of the USA and has offices all over the world. It is a nonprofit organization financed by subscriptions from member newspapers, periodicals and broadcasting stations.
5. Why could the USA broadcast and televise the trans-Atlantic news after 1965? 31@-1
In 1965, the USA launched the world's first communication space satellite "Early Bird". This "Early Bird" increased the telephone capacity across the Atlantic by over one third and made possible commercial "live" television broadcasts of trans-Atlantic events.
6. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of television.
---
Chapter-4 American and British Traditions and Customs
love of privacy
Halloween
John Bull
Abraham Lincoln
Uncle Sam
Thanksgiving
Buckingham Palace
Queen Victoria
the self-made man
the Spanish War
Whitehall
bargain

Answer the Questions
1. What are the shared customs in the UK and in the USA?
2. What are the customs which only the USA possesses?
3. What are the customs which only the UK has?
4. How do you like the Three Royal Traditions?
5. Why do the British people like to talk about the weather?
6. Comment on the Self-Made man
---
Chapter-5 American and British Sports
cricket
Soccer
Rugby football
Olympic Games
National Basketball Association
track and field events
boxing
golf
the American League
spectator sports
hurdle racing

Answer the Questions
1. What are the popular sports in the USA?
2. What is the British sportsmanship? How do you like it?
3. Who introduced bowing into the USA?
4. What are the popular sports in the UK?
5. Why is cricket regarded as the most English of games?
6. Compare the popular sports in the UK with the popular sports in the USA.
---
Chapter-6 American and British Anthems and Flags
Union Jack
James VI of Scotland
God Save the Queen
the Star-Spangled Banner
the Stars and Stripes
Old Glory
the Continental Colours
patron saint
Saint Patrick
the Crusades

1. What is an anthem? What is the difference between an anthem and a song?
2. How do you like the deleted stanza in God Save the Queen? And why do you think so?
3. What do you think of the rhyming in the national anthem of the USA?
4. Compare the national anthem of the UK with the national anthem of the USA?
5. Why do the British use Jack as part of the name of the national flag of the UK?
6. Why do the Americans use stars and stripes as the symbols of the USA?

---

Chapter-7 American and British Foreign Relations



